Huawei Technology expects a timely resolution to the case against its chief financial officer Meng Wanzhou, who was granted bail after 10 days' detention in Canada on Wednesday Beijing time.   

Meng was granted a C$10 million ($7.5 million) bail in Canada on Tuesday, local time. The courtroom erupted in applause when the decision was announced. Meng cried and hugged her lawyers, Reuters reported Tuesday. 

After being granted bail, Meng must wear an ankle monitor and stay at home from 11 pm to 6 am. Five friends pledged equity of their homes and cash as a guarantee she will not escape, Reuters reported.

The company reiterated in a statement sent to the Global Times on Wednesday that "Huawei complies with all applicable laws and regulations in the countries and regions where we operate, including export controls and sanction laws of the UN, US, and EU."

"We have every confidence that the Canadian and US legal systems will reach a just conclusion in the following proceedings" and "look forward to a timely resolution of this matter."

Meng, who is also the daughter of the Huawei founder Ren Zhengfei, was taken into custody in Vancouver on December 1 while traveling from Hong Kong to Mexico via Canada at the request of the US government. On the same day, China and the US declared a 90-day truce in their frictions during the G20 summit talks in Buenos Aires.

US President Donald Trump said on Tuesday in an interview with Reuters that he would intervene with the US Justice Department in Meng's case if it would help secure a trade deal with Beijing. 

Liu Weidong, a research fellow at the China Academy of Social Sciences' Institute of American Studies, told the Global Times that "Meng's case should not affect negotiations between China and the US over trade frictions, which involves national interests."

He noted that it is uncertain how much Trump can do for the case due to the separation of powers in the US.A compilation of remarks by President Xi Jinping on the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) over the past five years has been published by the Central Party Literature Press.

The book contains 42 articles drawn from the speeches and public remarks made by Xi, beginning with a speech he delivered at Nazarbayev University, Kazakhstan, in September 2013 calling for jointly building the Silk Road Economic Belt, and ending with the one he delivered at the opening ceremony of the 8th Ministerial Meeting of the China-Arab States Cooperation Forum in July 2018.

The book, with about 130,000 Chinese characters, was compiled by the Institute of Party History and Literature of the Communist Party of China Central Committee.

The BRI, first proposed by Xi, has received warm responses from the international community, especially the countries along the BRI routes. Jointly pursuing the BRI is becoming a Chinese solution for the country to participate in global opening-up and cooperation, improve the global economic governance, push for common development and prosperity of the world and build a community with a shared future for humanity.

The book will be available nationwide starting Tuesday. A white paper released Wednesday by the State Council Information Office said China has firmly established a governance principle of respecting and protecting human rights. 

"It is the determination and ultimate goal of the Communist Party of China (CPC) and the Chinese government to respect and protect human rights," said the document, titled "Progress in Human Rights over the 40 Years of Reform and Opening Up in China." 

Since the launch of reform and opening up in 1978, "respecting and protecting human rights" has been written into the reports to CPC National Congresses, the Constitution of the People's Republic of China, the Constitution of the CPC, and strategies and plans for national development, becoming an important principle of governance for the CPC and the Chinese government, it said. 

According to the white paper, that the state respects and protects human rights has been established as an important principle of the Constitution of China. 

Also, the CPC pursues human rights protection in its governance, the document said. 

The white paper noted that it has become a core goal of national development to respect and protect human rights.

"But there is no doubt that the US has been paying close attention to Huawei for a long time out of political concerns, even before trade frictions erupted," Liu added. 

The US has 60 days from the day of Meng's arrest to file a formal extradition request with Canadian authorities. Canada grants around 90 percent of extradition requests heard in court, owing to changes to its extradition laws in 1999. If an extradition request is granted, Meng will have several options to appeal, and the process could take months, the New York Times reported Tuesday. 

While Canada has freed Meng Wanzhou on bail, but the Huawei executive deserves to be given back her freedom by the courts, bringing closure to the fraught legal saga. 

The US, which had requested her arrest, is yet to submit the demand for Meng's extradition. If it fails to do so within 60 days of Meng's arrest, she will be set free. The ball now is in Washington' court. However, Canada is capable of ending the crisis by itself,  granting a Chinese citizen her legitimate rights which concerns China's judicial sovereignty. 

The judge said in the bail hearing that Meng has no criminal record in China and elsewhere. This precludes the US-Canada extradition agreement from holding back Meng as an accused and is reason enough to reject Washington's pursuit of her. Canada should go by the spirit of jurisprudence and ethics.

Canada has independent sovereignty and Meng is a citizen of China.The arrest or release of Meng in Canada should depend not only on whether she broke Canadian law but also on the country's obligations to China, which should hold precedence over Ottawa's obligation to a third country. As an independent and sovereign country that is not a vassal state, Canada should follow this line of action. 

The global business community has been alarmed by the executive's arrest in Canada. This has created uncertainty over international travel among corporate executives. Unconditionally freeing Meng will allay such apprehensions.

Canada knows that the US violates the spirit of international law by using domestic regulations to extend its jurisdiction. Canada should distance itself from US hegemonism and fulfill its obligations to help maintain international order and protect human rights. As a country having diplomatic ties with China, Canada should not violate China's sovereignty by placing the "long-arm jurisdiction" of a third country above Beijing's basic rights. 

Canada is waiting for US orders before it can extradite Meng. It is ridiculous for Canada to disregard its basic obligations to the international community. Is Canada the 51th state of the US? If Canada eventually fails to protect the safety of Chinese citizens within its territory ¡ª the country's basic duty, ignores ties with China and insists on extradition of Meng to the US, it is bound to pay for it. We believe that Ottawa has foreseen it and so has the world. 

Western media including Reuters on Tuesday cited a statement of the International Crisis Group, saying the group's senior adviser Michael Kovrig, who was also a former Canadian diplomat, has been detained in China. Although Chinese authorities have not yet responded to the claim, many people took it as China's retaliation. There is no evidence to establish a connection between the two incidents. The assumption is because Canada has gone too far and people naturally believe China will retaliate.

The two cases are different: Meng is a businesswoman detained in Canada, where she violated no laws; however, Kovrig is arrested in China because of what he did here, if he is really detained. 

China and Canada will negotiate for the next stage. We hope Canada will eventually take decisions that go with the reputation of an independent and civilized country.
 Liu said that Huawei, a Chinese telecom giant, will not be greatly affected by Meng's case, some on Chinese social media said that the case, if it drags on, will ruin Meng's career not only as Huawei CFO but also as her father's successor.